feat(content): Korath Exiles Expansion, Revised - Stage I (#6891)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/korath/korath weapons.txt

	"velocity scale" -.1

> outfit "Korath Shunt-Strike"

Author: Check it out:

https://github.com/ravenshining/endless-sky/pull/15

> outfit "Korath Shunt-Strike"

Author: Names of new weapons that are absent Korath prefix have been pushed, but, I guess that doesn't really address *your* concern necessarily.

Digger, Expeller, & Heaver are slightly more descriptive now

Shunt-Strike and Blaze-Pike are my favourites though - they've got that "translated from an alien language" vibe that others lack.

	category "Turrets"
	cost 821000
	thumbnail "outfit/shunt-strike"
	"mass" 42
	"outfit space" -42

> 	"weapon capacity" -42

Reviewer: Should the Shunt-Strike also receive a reduced weapon capacity usage to account for its asteroid scanner?

Author: Hmm.  Does this weapon's ability to target asteroids come from shipboard scanning, or does the miniature swarm of microbots seek out asteroids on their own?

	"energy capacity" 260
	"turret mounts" -1
	"required crew" 1
	"asteroid scan power" 16
	weapon
		sprite "projectile/shunt-strike"
			"frame rate" 24
			"random start frame"
		"hardpoint sprite" "hardpoint/shunt-strike"
		"hardpoint offset" 7.
		sound "shunt-strike"
		"inaccuracy" 1
		"turret turn" 2.1
		"velocity" 10
		"lifetime" 81
		"reload" 30
		"hit effect" "shunt-strike hit"
		"die effect" "shunt-strike sparkle"
		"firing energy" 100
		"firing heat" 150
		"relative firing shields" 0.001
		"acceleration" 1
		"drag" .1
		"turn" .2
		"homing" 4
		"tracking" .9
		"shield damage" 48

> 		"corrosion damage" 3

Author: On the other hand, it's a rather clumsy weapon, with the some flight characteristics as a grab-strike, not a nice beam like the slicer. I can take another look at it, we did have a few hiccups when converting weapons to the new DoT stuff, but take it for a spin and see how it feels.

We do keep it confined to Korath space and the Wastes, however, as we felt that much of an obvious corrosion effect would detract from the sort of mundane / strange split betwen human space and the rest of the galaxy. Lore wise, you could say it's not used against fragile human hulls for fear of destroying loot.

> 		"corrosion damage" 3

Reviewer 2: That, and it's notably more effective against Remnant (where they are preferably used) since the Remnant have very good regenerative stats. Based on all the variants we have that run these (including in stage ii), the only variants running them outside of EW space only have a single turret.

> 		"corrosion damage" 3

Author: #7060 adds these

		"minable damage" 200
		"piercing" 0.1
		"blast radius" 30
		"safe"
		"missile strength" 80

> 	description "This weapon fires homing balls of microbots that pass through a target's shields and attempt to convert its hull into raw materials or useful items such as heat shunts. They inevitably fail, as Exile microbots cannot sustain themselves without a Systems Core, but not before wreaking havoc on the ship."

Reviewer 3: So take this with a grain of salt. My first thought would have been that the issue would be them running out of commands in the buffer/orders to process and so stuttering to a halt. Essentially expending their usefulness. 
This kind of suggests they either run out of power or break down after a short time, and I'd have thought they'd need to have a decent duration of power to do their job normally - though if they break down and are just normally picked up and recycled by other microbots then that's a different matter and this is fine.

In any sense, if the idea is that they just break down over time then all good, but if it was something else I think it might be worth potentially adding a little more clarity here.
```suggestion
	description "This weapon fires homing balls of microbots that pass through a target's shields and attempt to convert its hull into raw materials or useful items such as heat shunts. They inevitably fail, as Exile microbots cannot perform sustained commands themselves without a Systems Core, but not before wreaking havoc on the ship."
```

Author: Hm.  It's an open question, but I was imagining multiple factors.

One being like you suggest, that they lack the computing power to be fully autonomous, relying on communication with the Systems Core when the unexpected comes up.

The other, more significant issue in my mind, being that they may not have internal energy generation, running entirely on capacitors.  Without a Systems Core to either return to or beam power to them wirelessly, they'd simply starve for energy.

Reviewer 3: Ah wireless power - I would think it more likely that they just recharge (if needed) off the nearest power conduit.

Author: Assuming they're compatible - not much room for adapters in a 1mm - 1um package!  I imagine, for simplicity and safety, they'd be keyed only to accept particular voltages or frequencies, in a particular manner.

Reviewer 3: They could potentially recharge wirelessly in a more local sense (rather than beamed from the system core) from the magnetic field around a power conduit. Inductive charging style - no adaptors required, and no beaming from the system core.

Author: I think you miss my point
The lack of rechargeability outside of specific methods would be a *deliberate safety feature* to prevent microbots from doing too much on their own.  No one wants another rampant swarm.

Reviewer 3: Ah yes, I see - though that could be a non-issue if the limiting factor was the number of potential task/commands they could store up and proceed to carry out. A rampant swarm of bots that just sits around and charges themselves up because they've run out of other tasks to do are pretty safe.
Likewise, if doing microbot stuff causes them to wear down and break - and the systems core is needed to print off new ones, that's a pretty safe swarm too.

Author: The problem I have with commands is that it's a *software* limitation.  If a few microbots out of the billions in operation suffer the wrong glitch... it becomes a problem.

A hardware lockout makes this more difficult.  Having them just wear out would *work*, but I don't think it's much fun to imagine.  I much prefer needing to recharge.

	description "Because the same property that allows the microbots through a target's shields disrupts the shields of the ship firing them, it is never used without an appropriately large Systems Core. Given adequate shield generation, however, the microbots make fantastic miners."

effect "shunt-strike hit"
	sprite "effect/shunt-strike-hit"
		"no repeat"
		"frame rate" 12
	"lifetime" 30
	"velocity scale" 0.05

effect "shunt-strike sparkle"
	sprite "effect/shunt-strike-sparkle"
		"frame rate" 30
	"lifetime" 30
	"velocity scale" 0.05
	"random angle" 10

> 

Reviewer 4: Whilst this is quite comical to picture a target ship being ripped apart and essentially doing a chunk of the korath's manufacturing in space, I'm not entirely sure about the name. Personally I'd suggest changing the name of this weapon to something like `"System Destruction Swarm"`? (please feel free to use a better name than this though)

Reviewer 2: Well, the idea is that this is also a "-strike" weapon, in line with the Grab-Strike (I think?) and System Destruction Swarm sounds too much like a handful.

Reviewer 5: I'd rather not make X-strike a korath weapon series. Grab-Strike on its own is an awkward name, I'd rather rename both weapons. ...Not that I have replacement names.

Author: I think awkward is good, it shows these names have been translated out of a very different tounge.  It's probably a single word made out of the two in Korath, like you often see in German, which I understand played a role in its inspiration.

However I do agree with Derpy in that the Korath- prefix needs to go when it comes to item names.

Reviewer 3: Yeah I'll back the language-origin justification. Additionally, since this invariably suggests that the ship is capable of producing these microbot balls somewhat reliably I note that this supports my suggestion of explicitly making the systems core descriptions reference *producing* the bots, not just housing them.

Reviewer 4: > I think awkward is good, it shows these names have been translated out of a very different tounge. It's probably a single word made out of the two in Korath, like you often see in German, which I understand played a role in its inspiration.
> 
> I don't speak any german at all, but I notice when you put two words like this next to each other in google translate, it comes out to a single, short word in German if you use a hyphen, and a longer single word if you don't.
> 
> However I do agree with Derpy in that the Korath- prefix needs to go when it comes to item names.

Ok, well it looks like shunt strike is a deliberate choice your end. I'm not attached to it so feel free to leave it as such.

		"hit force" 40
	description "The Korath like to keep their enemies close... but not too close."

outfit "Korath Expeller"
	category "Guns"
	cost 819000
	thumbnail "outfit/expeller"
	"mass" 20
	"outfit space" -20
	"weapon capacity" -20
	"gun ports" -1
	weapon
		sprite "projectile/expeller"
			"frame rate" 60
		sound "banisher"
		"hit effect" "banisher impact"
		"inaccuracy" .4
		"velocity" 590
		"lifetime" 1
		"reload" 1
		"firing energy" 1.75
		"firing heat" 3.1
		"shield damage" 1.4
		"hull damage" .45
		"hit force" 25

> 	description "This low-power version of the Banisher is used on Korath fighters to push enemy vessels away from carriers and civilians."

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
	description "This low-powered version of the Banisher is used on Korath fighters to push enemy vessels away from carriers and civilians."
```

Author: I dunno, "low-powered" sounds off to me

Reviewer 6: Doesn't really matter either way, feel free to resolve if you like.

	"random angle" 360
	"velocity scale" 0.

outfit "Blaze-Pike Turret"
	category "Turrets"
	cost 1970000
	thumbnail "outfit/blaze-pike"
	"mass" 57
	"outfit space" -54

> 	"weapon capacity" -54

Author: I tend to like decoupled mass/outfits, but that's a good catch in regards to the others.  I think I'll leave this one, but make the Inferno even more heavy - in keeping with the theme that these are more than the sum of their parts, and because slightly slowing down ships that weild them may not be a bad thing.

	"turret mounts" -1
	"required crew" 1
	weapon
		sprite "projectile/blaze-pike"
			"frame rate" 20
		"hardpoint sprite" "hardpoint/blaze-pike"
		sound "blaze-pike"
		"hit effect" "blaze-pike hit"
		"inaccuracy" 0.45
		"turret turn" 2.8
		"velocity" 450
		"lifetime" 1
		"reload" 1
		"firing energy" 5
		"firing heat" 4.5
		"shield damage" 7.1
		"hull damage" 3.1
		"heat damage" 18
		"burn damage" 0.45

> 	description "The seeming reverence the Korath have for fire appears embodied in this weapon. This pair of Fire-Lances mounted together in a turret do not merely double the gun's effect, but rather magnify it exponentially."

Reviewer 3: If this is an exponent it's a very small one, this description feels overblown.
```suggestion
	description "The seeming reverence the Korath have for fire appears embodied in this weapon. This pair of Fire-Lances mounted together in a turret do not merely double the gun's effect but, since the twin contact points constrain the individual dissipation rates, magnify the effect by a proportional amount."
```

Author: While I agree you're technically correct, I feel your suggested replacement is too wordy and specific.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps, but it does then explain the relationship that supports the Inferno's balance. The original is also currently on the shorter side of descriptions so far, so it's not like there's not space.

I'm open to alternatives of course, the 'exponentially' thing is the main issue I have.

Reviewer 7: This is the sort of thing where I really wish we could use events to alter outfit descriptions without creating duplicate outfits. If a player hasn't really even met the Korath, just acquired one of these as salvage or something, then this amount of detail should be shortened massively. On the other hand, if they've done the salvage mission set and/or have friendly relations with any of the Korath, then all this detail is entirely appropriate. 

This expanded description sounds entirely like the player is getting their explanations from Taely or Dawn. Which I don't consider a bad thing, it's just unlikely if they haven't *met* Taely or Dawn yet.

On the description at hand: Could this be shortened so that the technical description is removed so it's simply:

> , but rather magnify the effect by a proportional amount>"

(Basically, use the original text for the first part, simply replacing "it exponentially" with "by a proportional amount"

Reviewer 3: On the one hand, I hear you, but on the other, it's a technical explanation that you could take a guess at with what was for me first year university physics. The player is, after all, a ship captain - one of the major things the player character must logically have a good grip on is how heat works, and by the time you're reading this description you must have necessarily got the hang of a lot of different things including but not limited to; custom outfitting, space combat, and boarding. The piercer launcher and many ka het outfits have things that you maybe wouldn't guess at automatically.

Reviewer 8: What about something like:
```suggestion
	description "The seeming reverence the Korath have for fire appears embodied in this weapon. The close proximity of the Fire-Lances mounted on this turret results in a magnification of their effects beyond what two separate Fire-Lances would be capable of."
```

Reviewer 7: That seems like a good compromise between the two.

And yeah, MasterOfGrey does make a good point about understanding of physics and what not. Although I kind of wonder how "commodified" being a ship captain is these days. No mention was made of passing a test or having to do any real maintenance ourselves.

Author: @warp-core  I still don't like it -- I find it lacks poetry -- however, it is a lot better than Grey's, and if it keeps everyone from objecting, I don't mind it.

> 	description "The seeming reverence the Korath have for fire appears embodied in this weapon. This pair of Fire-Lances mounted together in a turret do not merely create twin lances of fire: Rather, they begin to form a gestalt -- a single, longer, hotter, and almost hypnotic column of fire."

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
	description "The seeming reverence the Korath have for fire appears embodied in this weapon. This pair of Fire-Lances mounted together in a turret do not merely create twin lances of fire: Rather, they begin to form a gestalt - a single, longer, hotter, and almost hypnotic column of fire."
```
Consistency with other dashes in outfit/ship descriptions. Could swap them over to a proper em dash once #4123 is in, though.

> 	description "The seeming reverence the Korath have for fire appears embodied in this weapon. This pair of Fire-Lances mounted together in a turret do not merely create two lances of fire, doubling the gun's effect. Rather, they begin to form a gestalt -- a single, longer, hotter, and almost hypnotic column of fire."

Reviewer 7: That weapon description sounds much improved, although two ideas occur to me as potential improvements:

```suggestion
	description "The seeming reverence the Korath have for fire appears embodied in this weapon. This pair of Fire-Lances mounted together in a turret do not merely create twin lances of fire: Rather, they begin to form a gestalt -- a single, longer, hotter, and almost hypnotic column of fire."
```

I think that flows a better and sounds more poetic. With the explicit mention that this does not merely create twin lances I don't the description benefits from elaborating that two lances might have been expected to have double the firepower.

effect "blaze-pike hit"
	sprite "effect/blaze-pike hit"
		"no repeat"
		"frame rate" 30
	"lifetime" 5
	"random angle" 360
	"random spin" 1
	"random velocity" 5
	"velocity scale" .005

> outfit "Korath Inferno"

Reviewer 8: I think Raven said somewhere that she specifically wants to keep the 'Korath' on the Inferno because it is supposed to be something they take great pride in, or something along those lines.

> outfit "Korath Inferno"

Author: Yep, and the the rename PR adds a note in the description to call attention to that.

	category "Turrets"
	cost 2670000
	thumbnail "outfit/korath inferno"
	"mass" 77
	"outfit space" -77
	"weapon capacity" -77
	"turret mounts" -1
	"required crew" 1
	weapon
		sprite "projectile/korath inferno"
			"frame rate" 20
		"hardpoint sprite" "hardpoint/korath inferno"
		sound "korath inferno"
		"hit effect" "korath inferno hit"
		"inaccuracy" 0.5
		"turret turn" 2
		"velocity" 550
		"lifetime" 1
		"reload" 1
		"firing energy" 7.5
		"firing heat" 8.5
		"shield damage" 10.8
		"hull damage" 4.8
		"heat damage" 30
		"burn damage" 0.9

> 	description "Some Korath consider the Inferno the crowning achievement of Exile weapon design. The three Fire-Lances mounted together in precisely the right manner combine synergistically, creating a longer, more powerful beam than three would individually."

Reviewer 3: Spot on balancing relative to the description. Nice.

> 	description "Some Korath consider the Inferno the crowning achievement of Exile weapon design. The three Fire-Lances mounted together in precisely the right manner combine synergistically, creating a longer, more powerful beam than three would individually."

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
	description "Some Korath consider the Inferno the crowning achievement of Exile weapon design. The three Fire-Lances mounted together in precisely the right manner combine synergistically, creating a longer, more powerful beam than spread out individually."
```

Author: This doesn't sound correct at all?

Are you perhaps confusing than with then?

Reviewer 7: I'm not quite feeling that proposed change, I think it misses the intent a little. For an alternative that I think sounds a better:

```suggestion
	description "Some Korath consider the Inferno the crowning achievement of Exile weapon design. The three Fire-Lances mounted together in precisely the right manner combine synergistically, creating a longer, more powerful beam than each would individually."
```

Reviewer 2: I feel a change here to this description is unnecessary, it already makes sense. But if we are doing your suggestion z, it should be "than each would *be* individually l"

Author: Each implies separation to me, three drives home that this is more than the sum of its parts.

Reviewer 9: Just about there, would `A trio of Fire-Lances` work instead?

Author: I still hate it but it's better than triplet

		"no repeat"
		"frame rate" 12
	lifetime 60
	sound "heaver shard hit"
	"velocity scale" .05
	"random angle" 10
	
outfit "Korath Blaze-Pike"
	category "Turrets"
	cost 1970000
	thumbnail "outfit/blaze-pike"
	"mass" 57
	"outfit space" -54
	"weapon capacity" -54
	"turret mounts" -1
	"required crew" 1
	weapon
		sprite "projectile/blaze-pike"
			"frame rate" 20
		"hardpoint sprite" "hardpoint/blaze-pike"
		sound "fire-lance"
		"hit effect" "blaze-pike hit"
		"inaccuracy" 0.45
		"turret turn" 3.7
		"velocity" 450
		"lifetime" 1
		"reload" 1
		"firing energy" 5
		"firing heat" 5.1
		"shield damage" 7
		"hull damage" 3
		"heat damage" 24
		"burn damage" 1.2
	description "The seeming reverence the Korath have for fire looks as if it is embodied in this weapon. This pair of Fire-Lances mounted together in a turret do not double the gun's effect, but rather magnify it exponentially."

effect "blaze-pike hit"
	sprite "effect/blaze-pike hit"
		"no repeat"
		"frame rate" 30
	"lifetime" 5
	"random angle" 360
	"random spin" 1
	"random velocity" 5
	"velocity scale" .005

outfit "Korath Inferno"
	category "Turrets"
	cost 2670000
	thumbnail "outfit/korath inferno"
	"mass" 77
	"outfit space" -71

> 	"weapon capacity" -71

Author: Ah, yes that does make sense.  I suppose I shall have to revisit the variants again -_-

	"turret mounts" -1
	"required crew" 1
	weapon
		sprite "projectile/korath inferno"
			"frame rate" 20
		"hardpoint sprite" "hardpoint/korath inferno"
		sound "korath inferno"
		"hit effect" "korath inferno hit"
		"inaccuracy" 0.5
		"turret turn" 2.7
		"velocity" 550
		"lifetime" 1
		"reload" 1
		"firing energy" 7.5
		"firing heat" 8.5
		"shield damage" 10.5
		"hull damage" 4.5
		"heat damage" 36
		"burn damage" 2.25
	description "Some Korath consider the Inferno the crowning achievement of Exile weapon design. The three Fire-Lances mounted together in precisely the right manner combine synergistically, creating a longer, more powerful beam than three would individually."

effect "korath inferno hit"
	sprite "effect/korath inferno hit"
		"no repeat"
		"frame rate" 30
	"lifetime" 5
	"random angle" 360
	"random spin" 1
	"random velocity" 5
	"velocity scale" .005

outfit "Korath Digger Turret"
	category "Turrets"
	cost 509000
	thumbnail "outfit/korath digger turret"
	"mass" 14
	"outfit space" -16

> 	"weapon capacity" -16

Reviewer 8: Intentional?

	"random velocity" .1
	"velocity scale" -.002

outfit "Korath Digger Turret"
	category "Turrets"
	cost 509000
	thumbnail "outfit/korath digger turret"
	"mass" 14
	"outfit space" -16
	"weapon capacity" -16
	"asteroid scan power" 15
	"turret mounts" -1
	"required crew" 1
	weapon
		sprite "projectile/digger"
			"frame rate" 20
		"hardpoint sprite" "hardpoint/digger turret"
		sound "korath digger"
		"hit effect" "korath digger hit"
		"inaccuracy" 1.5
		"turret turn" 4.6
		"velocity" 480
		"lifetime" 1
		"reload" 1
		"firing energy" 2.9
		"firing heat" 4.9
		"shield damage" 0.8
		"hull damage" 1.3
		"minable damage" 5.2
		"disruption damage" .08

> 	description `When the Korath Exiles needed a cheap mining laser for their large vessels, they reengineered this ancient but robust design. The mild shield disruption effect makes it somewhat useful in combat.`

Author: note to self: merge in batch when the files changed page finally loads

Honestly I agree, but it's a pretty small effect, easily missed on weapons this underpowered.  Not opposed to removing it in favour of some other buff.

		"firing heat" 4.3
		"shield damage" 0.5
		"hull damage" 0.9
		"minable damage" 4.6
		"disruption damage" .06
	description `The gun version of the classic Korath mining laser allows a larger mothership to release a cloud of fighter-sized miners to harvest resources when working faster-moving or more dangerous asteroid fields.`

effect "korath digger hit"
	sprite "effect/korath digger hit"
		"no repeat"
		"frame rate" 30
	"lifetime" 5
	"random angle" 30
	"velocity scale" .005

outfit "Langrage Hyper-Heaver"
	category "Secondary Weapons"
	cost 3450000
	thumbnail "outfit/korath heaver"
	"mass" 46
	"outfit space" -46
	"weapon capacity" -46
	"fuel capacity" 200
	"turret mounts" -1
	"required crew" 1
	weapon
		sprite "projectile/heaver hyperspace"
			"frame rate" 12
			rewind
		"hardpoint sprite" "hardpoint/korath heaver"
		sound "heaver"
		icon "icon/korath heaver"
		"hit effect" "heaver hyperspace hit"
		"inaccuracy" 0.5
		"turret turn" 2.2
		velocity 30
		lifetime 8
		"reload" 40
		"burst reload" 12
		"burst count" 6
		"firing energy" 31
		"firing heat" 190
		"firing fuel" 12.5
		"shield damage" -342
		"hull damage" -342
		"hit force" 3600
		submunition "Heaver Shard" 20

> 	description `Langrage Hyper-Heavers raise the use of improvised ammunition to a fine art. This turret converts scrap metal, nearby asteroids, compressed garbage, or other debris into a high speed debris field. The exact mechanism is unclear, but the internal workings bear some similarities to hyperdrives and banishers.`

Reviewer: One final comment, actually: I believe Banishers should be capitalized.
```suggestion
	description `Langrage Hyper-Heavers raise the use of improvised ammunition to a fine art. This turret converts scrap metal, nearby asteroids, compressed garbage, or other debris into a high speed debris field. The exact mechanism is unclear, but the internal workings bear some similarities to hyperdrives and Banishers.`
```

> 	description `Langrage Hyper-Heavers raise the use of improvised ammunition to a fine art. A small Banisher propels scrap metal, nearby asteroids, compressed garbage, or other debris into an unstable hyperspace window.`
> 	description `	At close range, the jumping langrage merely forces the enemy back. Further along, being forced to hyper transforms it into a rapidly-expanding cloud of deadly projectiles as it returns to normal space.`

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
	description `Langrage Hyper-Heavers raise the use of improvised ammunition to a fine art. This turret converts scrap metal, nearby asteroids, compressed garbage, or other debris into a high speed debris field. The exact mechanism is unclear, but the internal workings bear some similarities to both Hyperdrives and Jump Drives.`
	description `	At close range, the jumping langrage merely forces the enemy back. Further along, being forced to hyper transforms it into a rapidly-expanding cloud of deadly projectiles as it returns to normal space.`
```

I like precise-sounding language, but a few things occurred to me while writing this:

1. Descriptions are from First Last's point of view, and it seems unlikely that our human textile weaver would understand much about how these worked even if they did find a Korath willing to explain them at depth. (less than a dozen humans understand how hyperdrives work, according to the Hyperdrive's description, after all. If a known tech that has been around for many centuries is still that poorly understood, I sincerely doubt that First is going to pick up details if if they have the best korath instructor in the galaxy trying to teach them.)
2. It seems unlikely that the Korath would provide a detailed explanation.
3. Exactly how hyperdrives, hyperspace, and related techs could be weaponized is a matter of discussion. In order to avoid having this detail bog us down forever, this removes the details of exactly how it works, and instead hints that the weapon bears some similarities to them. This hints at the lore many of us would like to keep with the Heaver, without providing concrete details that could be problematic later.
4. I personally find descriptions more impactful when they are telling me what I can see and/or notice about the outfit, rather than merely providing a technical description. This gives me impressions and ideas, and leaves me to work out and/or speculate for myself.

Author: I really don't like the idea of switching from Hyperdrives to Jump Drives.  How is it acceptable to have the weapon use something as advanced as a JD but *not* a HD?  Isn't this making the alleged problem even worse?

The Exiles can only barely make jump drives.  They might have learned to make them more safely since their last contact with the Efreti, but I certainly wouldn't expect to see them being applied to other areas just yet.  Rather, this is a realm of technology better suited to a T3 civilisation, one for whom JD tech is old hat, not an exciting, dangerous, and not-universally-implemented field.

Worse, jump drives do not provide realspace acceleration from any evidence portrayed thus far.  That's a lot more lore-breaking to me than contradicting some primitive human physicists.

I rather prefer something along the lines of the earlier description you provided on Discord
```
    description `Langrage Hyper-Heavers raise the use of improvised ammunition to a fine art. This turret converts scrap metal, nearby asteroids, compressed garbage, or other debris into a high speed debris field. The exact mechanism is unclear, but the internal workings bear some similarities to hyperdrives.`
    description `    At close range, the jumping langrage merely forces the enemy back. Further along, being forced to hyper transforms it into a rapidly-expanding cloud of deadly projectiles as it returns to normal space.`
```

Reviewer 7: You are jumping to conclusions, which the description encourages, but it also deliberately does not confirm that conclusion. :) 

First off, it doesn't say that it is using a jump drive; just that it has some superficial similarities to one. Given that the *entirety* of Korath tech is 100% alien and *far* above the tech level of our pilot, that only really means that they're making use of some of the more advanced parts of their tech. It *may* be bits of JD tech in there, but it is just as likely as, say, me tearing open a sidewinder missile and seeing computer chips and going "Hey, they must be using a PC in here!" because that's what I'm familiar with. There might be some shared components, probably more than a few shared support technologies, but as to the key stuff that really makes it special.... Who knows?

Secondly, the Korath so far haven't really shown much attention to hyper*drive* technology. Personally, I don't think there is a linear progression from HD to JD, but rather many possible options. We do, however, know that they have JD, and a fairly solid mastery of it (not just humanity's "only a dozen people alive know how HD work!") because otherwise it wouldn't have necessitated shattering their civilization in two to exile those with the knowledge.

As such, even assuming that it *is* in fact JD based stuff in there, that's merely building on tech they already know and have a solid grasp of, rather than exploring a completely different line of technological development (creating micro hyperdrive lines) that they have hithertoo not shown any interest in. If we want them to get into that stuff too, great. But I don't think it is necessary. If we're wanting to limit them, technologically speaking, I think it's a bigger limitation to have them just using a variation on the JD they already know than to have them *also* figuring out creating hyperspace lines.

Anyway, that's my reasoning behind it. Basically focusing in on their known tech, rather than expanding their knowledge to include other areas. 

If you still want me to revert to the older description, I can happily do so.

Author: If you expect me to think JDs are not involved in that description, than you may expect HDs to not be involved in the most recently pushed description based on your previous edit.

If Jump Drive technology were solidly mastered, I don't expect you'd see so many vessels *not* using them.  True, we have that implemented for gameplay reasons -- to prevent their largest ships from leaving Korath space and/or getting captured by the player -- but in this case, the gameplay is informing the lore, and it's a sensible point.  *Quarg* have mastered Jump Drives, and the Korath, try as they might, are not on their level.

As for their ability to master the hyperdrive, on that we disagree.  Perhaps learning to build JDs may have leapfrogged them beyond creating stable links, but I'd expect them to be far beyond what humans can do in that area.  Nor does the current description even mention links or windows, it's using your vague language.

Reviewer: Of note is that in MZ's lore dump, it's stated that hyperdrive and jump drive technologies are distinctly separate from one another, and there's nothing stopping a faction from developing jump drives before hyperdrives, suggesting that jump drive tech isn't simply an extension of hyperdrive tech and is instead a separate tree entirely, albeit probably more difficult to start developing than hyperdrive tech, hence why we see hyperdrive tech come first so often.

Reviewer 7: I'm good with the modified version that has been implemented. I do like the idea that HD and JD are actually different tech trees.

	"random velocity" .1
	"velocity scale" -.002

outfit "Korath Digger Turret"
	category "Turrets"
	cost 509000
	thumbnail "outfit/korath digger turret"
	"mass" 14
	"outfit space" -16
	"weapon capacity" -16
	"asteroid scan power" 15
	"turret mounts" -1
	"required crew" 1
	weapon
		sprite "projectile/digger"
			"frame rate" 20
		"hardpoint sprite" "hardpoint/digger turret"
		sound "korath digger"
		"hit effect" "korath digger hit"
		"inaccuracy" 1.5
		"turret turn" 4.6
		"velocity" 480
		"lifetime" 1
		"reload" 1
		"firing energy" 2.9
		"firing heat" 4.9
		"shield damage" 0.8
		"hull damage" 1.3
		"minable damage" 5.2
		"disruption damage" .08

> 	description `When the Korath Exiles needed a cheap mining laser for their large vessels, they re-engineered this ancient but robust design. The mild shield disruption effect makes it somewhat useful in combat.`

Reviewer 4: In a pinch a mining laser would probably work, and the disruption damage is fairly nifty, but I wouldn't trust this to be my main weapon, and once the exiles salvage the meretri disruptor turrets I can see these being relegated to be purely for mining.
```suggestion
	description `When the Korath Exiles needed a cheap mining laser for their large vessels, they re-engineered this ancient but robust design. The mild shield disruption effect makes it somewhat useful in combat if required.`
```

Author: Yeah, in testing I've noticed a single Digger is incapable of overcoming the shield and hull regen of a tiny systems core.   Definitely nothing more than a "I can't fit anything else in this hardpoint" kind of weapon.

outfit "Korath Digger"
	category "Guns"
	cost 419000
	thumbnail "outfit/korath digger"
	"mass" 10
	"outfit space" -10
	"weapon capacity" -10
	"asteroid scan power" 10
	"gun ports" -1
	weapon
		sprite "projectile/digger thin"
			"frame rate" 20
		sound "korath digger"
		"hit effect" "korath digger hit"
		"inaccuracy" 0.1
		"velocity" 480
		"lifetime" 1
		"reload" 1
		"firing energy"  2.1
		"firing heat" 4.3
		"shield damage" 0.5
		"hull damage" 0.9
		"minable damage" 4.6
		"disruption damage" .06

> 	description `The gun version of the classic Korath mining laser allows a larger mothership to release a cloud of fighter-sized miners to harvest resources when working faster-moving or more dangerous asteroid fields.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	description `The gun version of the classic Korath mining laser allows a larger mothership to release a cloud of fighter-sized miners to harvest resources when working on faster-moving or more dangerous asteroid fields.`
```

Author: Not a typo, this was a deliberate wording choice

Reviewer 3: Aight

effect "korath digger hit"
	sprite "effect/korath digger hit"
		"no repeat"
		"frame rate" 30
	"lifetime" 5
	"random angle" 30
	"velocity scale" .005

outfit "Korath Heaver"
	category "Secondary Weapons"
	cost 3450000
	thumbnail "outfit/korath heaver"
	"mass" 46
	"outfit space" -46
	"weapon capacity" -46
	"fuel capacity" 200

> 	"turret mounts" -1

Reviewer 2: Yay!

			rewind
		"hardpoint sprite" "hardpoint/korath heaver"
		icon "icon/korath heaver"
		velocity 30
		lifetime 8
		"hit force" 3600
		"hit effect" "heaver hyperspace hit"
		sound "heaver"
		submunition "Heaver Shard" 20
		"turret turn" 2.2
		"reload" 40
		"burst reload" 12
		"burst count" 6
		"firing energy" 31
		"firing heat" 190
		"firing fuel" 12.5
		"inaccuracy" 0.5
	description `Korath Heavers raise to a fine art the age-old warfare method of throwing rocks at one's enemy until they die. A small Banisher throws asteroids or other debris into an unstable hyperspace window. At close range, this merely pushes the enemy, but after the debris exits hyperspace, it becomes a rapidly-expanding cloud of deadly projectiles.`

effect "heaver hyperspace hit"
	sprite "effect/heaver hyperspace hit"
		"no repeat"
		rewind
		"frame rate" 60
	lifetime 36
	"velocity scale" .1
	sound "heaver hyperspace hit"

outfit "Heaver Shard"
	weapon
		sprite "projectile/heaver shard"
			"frame rate" 12
			"rewind"
		"random velocity" 3
		"velocity" 10
		"lifetime" 40
		"random lifetime" 15
		"shield damage" 17
		"hull damage" 17
		"inaccuracy" 3.5
		"hit force" 20
		"hit effect" "heaver shard hit" 5

> 		"missile strength" 12

Author: I don't want to shoot down suggestions just because this is a late stage.  However, going into finer and finer projectiles, while interesting, may be a bit unnecessary and simulation-y.  In practise they do spread out and fade, and that's enough to suggest the effect to me.

	"random velocity" .1
	"velocity scale" -.002

outfit "Digger Mining Turret"
	category "Turrets"
	cost 509000
	thumbnail "outfit/korath digger turret"
	"mass" 14
	"outfit space" -16

> 	"weapon capacity" -16

Author: Maybe I'll trade that 14 from mass to weapon, since a) this is an awfully weak weapon and b) because it's also an asteroid scanner.

		"shield damage" 0.8
		"hull damage" 1.3
		"minable damage" 5.2
		"disruption damage" .08
	description `When the Korath Exiles needed a cheap mining laser for their large vessels, they re-engineered this ancient but robust design. The mild shield disruption effect makes it somewhat useful in combat if required.`

outfit "Digger Mining Beam"
	category "Guns"
	cost 419000
	thumbnail "outfit/korath digger"
	"mass" 10
	"outfit space" -10
	"weapon capacity" -10
	"asteroid scan power" 10
	"gun ports" -1
	weapon
		sprite "projectile/digger thin"
			"frame rate" 20
		sound "korath digger"
		"hit effect" "korath digger hit"
		"inaccuracy" 0.1
		"velocity" 480
		"lifetime" 1
		"reload" 1
		"firing energy"  2.1
		"firing heat" 4.3
		"shield damage" 0.5
		"hull damage" 0.9
		"minable damage" 4.6
		"disruption damage" .06
	description `The gun version of the classic Korath mining laser allows a larger mothership to release a cloud of fighter-sized miners to harvest resources when working faster-moving or more dangerous asteroid fields.`

effect "korath digger hit"
	sprite "effect/korath digger hit"
		"no repeat"
		"frame rate" 30
	"lifetime" 5
	"random angle" 30
	"velocity scale" .005

> outfit "Langrage Hyper-Heaver"

Reviewer 10: I thought this should be "Lagrange", but apparently Langrage is:
"A type of shot consisting of scrap iron loaded into a case and formerly used in naval warfare to damage sails and rigging."

Nice word

> outfit "Langrage Hyper-Heaver"

Reviewer: Did some of my own sleuthing on this term:
1) I always love having obscure words for people to look up.
2) I see that this word has various spellings; any reason for using "langrage" as opposed to "langridge" (which is spelled closer to the word's pronunciation)?

Author: Glad you like that part :-)  Using an obscure term from the age of sail was in fact deliberate.

I've only ever seen it spelled and heard it pronounced langrage, I wasn't aware of the alternative.

	category "Secondary Weapons"
	cost 3450000
	thumbnail "outfit/korath heaver"
	"mass" 46
	"outfit space" -46
	"weapon capacity" -46
	"fuel capacity" 200
	"turret mounts" -1
	"required crew" 1
	weapon
		sprite "projectile/heaver hyperspace"
			"frame rate" 12
			rewind
		"hardpoint sprite" "hardpoint/korath heaver"
		icon "icon/korath heaver"
		velocity 30
		lifetime 8
		"hit force" 3600
		"hit effect" "heaver hyperspace hit"
		sound "heaver"
		submunition "Heaver Shard" 20
		"turret turn" 2.2
		"reload" 40
		"burst reload" 12
		"burst count" 6
		"firing energy" 31
		"firing heat" 190
		"firing fuel" 12.5
		"inaccuracy" 0.5
	description `Langrage Hyper-Heavers raise the use of improvised ammunition to a fine art. A small Banisher propels scrap metal, nearby asteroids, compressed garbage, or other debris into an unstable hyperspace window.`

> 	description `At close range, the jumping langrage merely forces the enemy back. Further along, being forced to hyper transforms it into a rapidly-expanding cloud of deadly projectiles as it returns to normal space.`

Reviewer 11: Maybe instead of hyperspace, maybe the flavour text could just be "a combination of banisher parts, heat lances and afterburner plumbing has resulted in this horrifying yet effective weapon that turns scrap waste into a chaotic spray of projectiles."...or something along those lines.

> 	description `At close range, the jumping langrage merely forces the enemy back. Further along, being forced to hyper transforms it into a rapidly-expanding cloud of deadly projectiles as it returns to normal space.`

Reviewer 7: Humanity has a very *long* tradition of declaring stuff impossible, then figuring out how to do it later anyway. I see no reason why a human hyperspace engineer should have any real capability to dictate the limitations on how a much more advanced alien race uses technology.

It might be a bit of an obstinate attitude, but I'd actually consider the fact that human in-universe people declare it to be impossible to make it even *more* appropriate that the Korath actually manage to do so. 

Personally, I suspect that those hyperspace engineers do not, in fact, know that hyperspace weaponry is impossible - but rather they are trying desperately to keep military attention focused away from hyperspace so that they can keep their field for peaceful purposes. Perhaps, drawing inspiration from history, they are like the atomic scientists, except they have realized that their field may indeed be turned to warfare, and are trying pre-emptively to convince everyone that it cannot. 

As such, I'd personally like to keep this lore. I like the idea of short range (aka in-system) military applications of hyperspace technology, and the Korath are unquestionably the best positioned race to have developed it. (given that they are basically second only to Drak and Pug in their understanding of hyperspace related technology)

> 	description `At close range, the jumping langrage merely forces the enemy back. Further along, being forced to hyper transforms it into a rapidly-expanding cloud of deadly projectiles as it returns to normal space.`

Reviewer 3: > Humanity has a very long tradition of declaring stuff impossible

Case in Point:
The New York Times, on Oct 9th, 1903: "[...] it might be assumed that the flying machine which will really fly might be evolved by the combined and continuous efforts of mathematicians and mechanicians in from one million to ten million years."

The Wright brothers first flew on December 17, 1903. (two months and 8 days later)

> 	description `At close range, the jumping langrage merely forces the enemy back. Further along, being forced to hyper transforms it into a rapidly-expanding cloud of deadly projectiles as it returns to normal space.`

Author: One of the themes I've been trying to create, and that you'll see more of in Stage II, is that while the Efreti developed Korath gravity-manipulation tech for peaceful purposes, the Exiles have turned it to... well, I was about to say war, but I suppose it might more aptly be described as *crime*, for the most part.

Hyperdrive technology is suggested to be related to or reliant upon gravitics, and Korath have gone beyond that to master enough of the warp and weft to create jump drives, so I think it would be reasonable and in-theme for the Exiles, and possibly *only* the Exiles until we get other aggressive T2 or higher factions, to have hyper-based weaponry.

But, I get that it's unusual and is lore-establishing for the whole setting, not just the Korath.  So, I wouldn't be... too opposed to re-loring this as a strictly *gravity*-based weapon.

I think we'd need to swap out the sounds and the effects for the first stage if we did that, though.  The animation and its effect I think are great for showing what happens when you shove a container of garbage through a small, temporary, unstable hyperlink in your opponent's direction, but wouldn't make sense if this is just a big 'ol banisher being used to throw rice.  Nor would the fuel usage, which is a major balancing point.

> 	description `At close range, the jumping langrage merely forces the enemy back. Further along, being forced to hyper transforms it into a rapidly-expanding cloud of deadly projectiles as it returns to normal space.`

Reviewer 12: I think just making it directly grav manipulation based still works, but I agree that we should reconsider fuel cost and some of the effects then.

But considering it's literally a way to weaponize otherwise worthless debris and, essentially, trash, I think it should be something they start with. It really feels like an early improvisation after the Exile.

Later, beefier versions made to throw large solid chunks that can fill the role of traditional orbital bombardment that Zitchas also wants would be much more suited to that.

> 	description `At close range, the jumping langrage merely forces the enemy back. Further along, being forced to hyper transforms it into a rapidly-expanding cloud of deadly projectiles as it returns to normal space.`

Reviewer: Be aware that parent projectiles inherit the damage of their submunitions. This description makes it sound to me like the weapon isn't working as intended; the first stage of the projectile won't only deal hit force, and the Shards will include the damage of the Splinters, meaning that I believe that this weapon is dealing double the damage that it's intended to, making it one of the strongest weapons in the game.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17688683/180982905-5a47b1f7-a930-42af-a4cf-e17aa7bc3044.png)

If you want to have this weapon work as intended:
* The Shard should deal no damage and have no hit force, as a Shard's damage will be contained within its Splinters.
* The main weapon should deal negative damage equal to the damage of all Splinters so that it cancels them out.

And please use a damage value for the Splinter that shouldn't be a repeating digit. 5.7 damage per shard will result in 342 damage per shot (whereas I believe the intended damage per shot is 340).
